The human digestive system consists of two major parts: the gastrointestinal — GI — tract and the accessory organs.
The GI tract begins with the oral cavity, which houses the tongue, teeth, and salivary glands.
The mouth mechanically breaks down food and initiates carbohydrate digestion.
The pharynx is a muscular tube behind the mouth that helps propel the chewed food to the esophagus.
The esophagus transports food to the stomach through rhythmic contractions called peristalsis.
The stomach is located below the diaphragm.
It stores and churns food and aids in the enzymatic breakdown of proteins.
The small intestine is a coiled tube in the central and lower abdomen.
It is responsible for nutrient absorption and fat digestion.
The large intestine, or colon, follows the small intestine.
It absorbs water, electrolytes, and vitamins and houses beneficial gut bacteria.
The anus is the terminal part of the rectum, involved in eliminating waste.
The accessory digestive organs include the liver, pancreas, and gallbladder.
@